                               Improved Anvil V6
                           Auramaster_Kit Description


AURAMASTER: Auramasters can use the magical aura and energy spread and floating in the nature and
to weave and cast spells faster and more frequently than ordinary spellcasters. They also can
cast spells which are not available to other druids. The new spells are duplicates of a few
wizard spells as well as some entirely new spells.

Advantages:

1- +2 bonus to casting speed
2- Immunity to silence.
3- Can memorize one additional spell per spell level.
4- Access to additional spells as follows (the asterisked spells are new):

Additional first level spell: Burning hands
Additional second level spell: Mirror Image
Additional third level spell: Fire Arrow
Additional fourth level spell: Emotion
Additional fifth level spell: Protection From Acid
Additional sixth level spells: Chain Lightining, Death Spell, Unleash Energy*
Additional seventh level spells: Aura Cleansing*, Perfect Camouflage*, Ruby Ray Of Reversal

5- At level 13, gains 40% resistance to magic damage.
6- At level 15, Gains the innate ability "Contact with Nature". This ability can be used once per
   day to regenerate 24 hp per round for 10 rounds. While in contact with nature, the auramaster
   is also immune to petrification and imprisonment.
7- At level 22, gains the innate ability, Aura of invulnerability, which acts as a shield of
   energy, absorbing 40% of all physical damage as well as granting +6 bonus to AC for 12 rounds.
   The ability can be used but once per day.


Disadvantages:

1- Cannot wear any armour
2- Cannot shape shift
3- Receives a -4 penalty to Strength
4- Receives a -4 penalty to constitution
5- Requires 12 Intelligence
6- Cannot dual class
7- Does NOT gain the ordinary druidic immunity to poison (at level 15) and partial resistance to
   elemental damage (at level 18)

Descriptions of new spells:

Unleash Energy:

Level: 6
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 6
Area of Effect: One target
Range: Caster's visual sight
Saving Throw: None

This powerful spell unleashes an outstanding bolt of energy which inflicts 10d8 points of magic
damage to a single target.


Aura Cleansing:

It is the same as the mage HLA, Improved Alacrity.


Perfect Camouflage(Abjuration)
Level: 7
Range: 0
Duration: 20 rounds
Casting Time: 5
Area of Effect: Special
Saving Throw: None

Casting this powerful spell makes the Auramaster druid invisible and immune to all divination
spells for the duration of the spell. If the druid attacks or casts offensive spells during this
period of time, he or she will become partially visible and will be subject to physical attack,
but no spell can be directly cast on him or her. Note that this spell doesn't make the caster
immune to those spells which affect an area instead of an individual target. Since Auramasters
cast spells more quickly than other spellcasters, the effective casting time of this spell is 3.
A successful remove magic can dispel the effects of this spell.